# Introduction #
**This document is constantly being updated**

This document is being developed as a reference both for myself and others who are interested in contributing to Xinc development but are unsure how to do it or perhaps the best way.  It was not so cut and dry when I first began it, so I am hoping to mitigate any questions and stumbling blocks which may prohibit someone from contributing.  I am going to approach the development from the perspective of an Eclipse PDT 2.0 user.  I tend to use vim for smaller projects and Eclipse for larger projects (although it was not always this way, I have found certain features of Eclipse to be too good to ignore).  My chosen environment will be Windows XP as well, although I will provide general ideas for how this will work in a Linux / Mac environment as I have developed on those as well.

## Tools Needed ##

Eclipse PDT 2.0 (or suitable IDE)<br />
Apache (or other webserver)<br />
PHP<br />
<br />


# Details #

Xinc, as you are most likely aware, is built using PHP and, therefore, requires a suitable SAPI with which to execute in a web environment.  In our case, this includes both CLI and Webserver as they are both used in a complete Xinc operation.  PHP's CLI SAPI should be installed by default in most PHP builds in all environments.  Please refer to the PHP documentation at http://www.php.net for more information if you are unable to execute a simple php script from the command line using the command:<br /><br />`php foo.php`<br /><br />In my Windows XP environment, I am running Apache 2 as my webserver.  I will not be going into detail on how to install the PHP, Apache, or Eclipse packages as it is beyond the scope of this document.  We will, however, be touching on some various configuration options available in both packages as they will become very important in a successful development environment.<br />
<br />

After you have installed Eclipse PDT 2.0, PHP, and Apache on your system and can verify that you have a working installation, we can begin the Xinc install.  For those who want to skip a lot of step by step instructions and are familiar enough with their environment to continue, essentially I am going to install the Xinc package from the PEAR repository and symlink to the source downloaded via the subversion public access.  I will illustrate how to do this below.<br />
<br />
The first thing you are going to want to do is get the source to Xinc via the subversion public access.  This can be found by clicking on the source tab above and following the instructions on that page.  In Eclipse, I have chosen to use the SVN Repository Explorer to check out the Xinc source.  This allows me to keep my development environment inside one tool so that I can have a consistent workflow.  Whichever tool you choose to use, please note the directory that you are checking out your working copy to as it will become very important in a moment.<br />
<br />
The second thing you are going to do is install the Xinc package exactly as it is described in installation section of the latest Xinc documentation located [here](http://xinc.eu/api/documentation/get/file/xinc/latest-successful/Enduser/index.html).  Please be sure to follow all instructions up to and including testing your installation to verify that Xinc is properly installed.  Please go ahead and test the daemon process too as it will set some things up and assure a successful view in the browser.  <br /><br />**Note:**`  If you are on a Windows machine, there is a service that can be used.  It is managed by WinServ and was created as part of the PEAR install.  Please verify that the service is installed by checking the Services and Application snap-in in the Management interface.  This is one reason, I have you install via the PEAR process so that you are not burdened with the manual placement of these important items.`<br /><br />
Once you can verify that you have a working installation, we will now locate the directory where Xinc was installed.  This is going to vary from system to system depending on your PEAR repository location.  In my installation on Windows XP, it is located at C:\Program Files\PHP\PEAR\Xinc (with \PEAR being the root PEAR installation directory).  If you are using linux or mac os x, it will most likely reside in your PHP installation folder (/opt/local/PHP, by default on my mac.  This, of course, depends on your configuration options during build).  <br /><br />
**Sidenote:**
> As you are no doubt aware, there are two very important locations in a Xinc installation.  The first is the web front end location, which should be somewhere that your webserver can obtain access too (such as /var/www or the htdocs folder on a Windows installation).  Inside this folder is the .htaccess file that has the necessary rewrite rules in place that require all frontend access to be handled through the handler.php file.  All CSS style sheets, javascript, etc are here as well.  Secondly, the core Xinc library resides inside the PEAR repository path.  This library is responsible for not only all frontend operations but the build loop as well.  I will be diving deeper into these topics as the need arises, but for now understand the separation between frontend and build loop (backend, if you like) operations and where each resides.
<br /><br />The location you are interested in at the moment is the Xinc folder that resides in the PEAR repository path.  Once you are in the PEAR repository path folder and can see the Xinc folder, please rename this folder to Xinc\_base.  We will differentiate the base stable install from the development install that I am going to now have you create.  Now, find the location of your working copy that you checked out from the Xinc svn repository public access.  We are going to create a symlink from the PEAR repository path location to your working copy.  It is very important that you do this correctly.  When you look at your working copy, you will no doubt see several extraneous directories that seem as though they are of no consequence to Xinc.  These directories are part of the PEAR repository standard and contain several files that are used for that install.  The files we are interested in for development are located in the `classes` folder.  You will need to create a symlink from your PEAR repository base installation path called Xinc to this location inside the classes folder.  This way if you were to enter the Xinc folder from the root path of your PEAR installation, you would see the base classes of Xinc beginning, most likely, with Xinc.php (I say most likely as there is always a possibility that things will change but this document is accurate as of the 2.0.3 branch).  If you are not familiar with symlinks please refer to this link [here](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ln_(Unix)).  <br /><br />**Note:**`  If you are in Windows XP you need to create a Junction, as it does not understand the notion of symlink.  On Windows Vista, you should be able to create a symlink as normal.  Please refer to google for more information on how this can be done.`<br /><br />
Please test your installation of Xinc once more and verify that nothing has changed.  If everything is still operational, congratulations you have a working development environment for Xinc.  If you are having issues getting this up and running, please refer to the Xinc Devlopment Google Group [here](http://groups.google.com/group/xinc).  If your question is not answered, please feel free to post and someone will be able to help you as soon as they can.
# Final Notes #
If you find that any of this information is unclear or could be explained better, please do not hesitate to add comments below.  I will be updating this document for clarity as it becomes important to do so.  If you have any additional tips you would like to see added, please also let me know.  Thanks and happy development with Xinc!